Update Full Text Search because of RelevanceV2 (#1115)
owncloud/docs-server: modules/admin_manual/pages/configuration/general_topics/search.adoc

=== Search External Storage

Define if external storage should be included in ES indexing by setting the checkmark accordingly with btn:[Scan external Storages]. Setting this checkmark not only enables search in external storages, but also search in federated shares. Note that this setting requires to rebuild the index.

=== Connector Setup

There are 2 different indexes. The `Legacy` is the old / current one while the `RelevanceV2` is the new one. The difference between the two is how index data is stored because both provide different capabilities and index in different ways. This results in different search capabilities. The Legacy doesn't differ from the current search while the RelevanceV2 has new capabilities.

To populate the new connector with enhanced capabilities, an occ command needs to be run for each user, creating index data accordingly. See the occ command section xref:configuration/server/occ_command.adoc#fill-a-secondary-index[Fill a Secondary Index] for more details.

image::apps/search_elastic/connector_setup.png[Connector Setup,width=600]

==== Migrating to the RelevanceV2 Connector:

> * If you haven't indexed anything yet, you are encouraged to setup the connectors you want to use as part of the app configuration. The recommended one is `RelevanceV2` for `write` and `search`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If you haven't indexed anything yet, you are encouraged to set up the connectors you want to use as part of the app configuration. The recommended one is `RelevanceV2` for `write` and `search`.
```

* If you have indexed data already, use the following steps to migrate to the new index scheme:

> . Assuming you have the `Legacy` connector setup for `write` and `search`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Assuming you have the `Legacy` connector set up for `write` and `search`.
```

. Run the `occ search:index:fillSecondary RelevanceV2 <user>` xref:configuration/server/occ_command.adoc#fill-a-secondary-index[command]. The command needs to be run for all  users, or at least the ones using the search app. Note that this step is expected to take a lot of time.

. Once indexed data has been migrated for all users, you can switch the search connector to use the new `RelevanceV2` search capabilities.

. After checking everything is good, you can remove the old `Legacy` connector from the list of write connectors.

. Finally you can completely remove the old index from Elasticsearch.

With step 2, you will be writing into both indexes at the same time. This is expected to be slower. Note that step 2 just takes care of new files. Files indexed previously won't be present in the new index. This is why step 3 is there.

Step 4 is important and you should stop at that point for a while. If something goes wrong, you can still revert things, in particular, you can switch back to the `Legacy` connector. In this case, use the occ command referenced above with the `Legacy` index.

> From step 5 the actions are irreversible. If you want to go back, you'll have to start a new migration.

Reviewer: Shouldn't these explanations be mentioned right with the steps not after the users may have performed them already?

> It's important to notice there isn't any expected downtime while the migration happens. Until step 4, the `Legacy` connector will keep updating the index normally. When the switch happens in the search connector, the new `RelevanceV2` connector will access to the new index, which should have been fully updated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's important to notice there isn't any expected downtime while the migration happens. Until step 4, the `Legacy` connector will keep updating the index normally. When the switch happens in the search connector, the new `RelevanceV2` connector will access the new index, which should have been fully updated.
```

==== No Authentication

When using `No Authentication`, just fill in the URL of the ES server.

image::apps/search_elastic/search_elastic_no_auth.png[No Auth,width=350]

==== User / Password Authentication

When using `User / Password Authentication`, enter the credentials set up on the ES server. Note that the password will be stored encrypted in the ownCloud database.

image::apps/search_elastic/search_elastic_u_p_auth.png[User / Password Auth,width=350]

==== API Key Authentication

When using `API Key Authentication`, enter the API Key with which the ES server was set up.

image::apps/search_elastic/search_elastic_api_key_auth.png[API Key Auth,width=350]

IMPORTANT: The API Key needs to be the _encoded_ one, *not* the _api_key_ string. For details see the {create-api-key-url}[Create API key API] at the ES documentation.

=== Search External Storage

Define if external storage should be included in ES indexing by setting the checkmark accordingly with btn:[Scan external Storages]. Setting this checkmark not only enables search in external storages, but also search in federated shares. Note that this setting requires to rebuild the index.

=== Connector Setup

> There are 2 different indexes. The `Legacy` is the old / current one while the `RelevanceV2` is the new one. The difference between the two is how index data is stored because both provide different capabilities and index in different ways. This results in different search capabilities. The Legacy doesn't have any difference with the current search while the RelevanceV2 has new capabilities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are 2 different indexes. The `Legacy` is the old / current one while the `RelevanceV2` is the new one. The difference between the two is how index data is stored because both provide different capabilities and index in different ways. This results in different search capabilities. The Legacy doesn't differ from the current search while the RelevanceV2 has new capabilities.
```

> To populate the new connector with enhanced capabilities, an occ command needs to be run for each user creating index data accordingly. See the occ command section xref:configuration/server/occ_command.adoc#fill-a-secondary-index[Fill a Secondary Index] for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To populate the new connector with enhanced capabilities, an occ command needs to be run for each user, creating index data accordingly. See the occ command section xref:configuration/server/occ_command.adoc#fill-a-secondary-index[Fill a Secondary Index] for more details.
```

When index data for all users has been transferred to the new index, the read index can be changed to `RelevanceV2` and the old index can be removed via Elastic Search. In the worst case, you can go back to use the old index but having the data still stored in the RelevanceV2 index. In this case, you can use the occ command referenced above with the `Legacy` index.

image::apps/search_elastic/connector_setup.png[Connector Setup,width=600]

==== Enhanced Search Capabilities with RelevanceV2

Additional searches you can do with the "RelevanceV2" connector:

* Search by extension +

> `ext:pdf`, `ext:docx`, `ext:gif`, `ext:mp4`, `ext:tar.gz`, `ext:gz`, etc, any extension is possible

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`ext:pdf`, `ext:docx`, `ext:gif`, `ext:mp4`, `ext:tar.gz`, `ext:gz`, etc., any extension is possible
```

* Search by size, only in bytes or megabytes
** Search by byte size: +
`size.b:<8092` , `size.b:>102400`, `size.b:[8092 TO 16184]`
** Search by megabyte size: +
`size.mb:<3`, `size.mb:>9`, `size.mb:[3 TO 9]`
* Search by type: only "file" or "folder" +
`type:file`, `type:folder`
* Search by date:
** Search by timestamp: +
`mtime:<1678960862`, `mtime:>1678960862`, `mtime:[1608111372 TO 1678960862]` +
** Search by date: +
`mtime:<2021-08-25`, `mtime:>2023-01-18`, `mtime:[2022-01-01 TO 2022-12-31]`
* Search by mimetype: +
`mime:image`, `mime:gif`, `mime:text` +

> NOTE: To search for the whole mimetype such as "image/gif" use `mime.key:image\/gif`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: To search for the whole mimetype such as "image/gif" use `mime.key:image\/gif`.
```
